first of all welcome you on the on the
podcast and thank you for accepting the
invitation Professor CED oh thank you
very much pleasure to be here and um
first of all just a short intro so as I
understand your background is genetics
and and biochemistry yes that's correct
and you are currently as working as
professor at the Boston College yes and
yes that's cor but whoever is
uh searching for your name they they
will always uh come to a conclusion that
you have amazing knowledge on
cancer uh cancer prevention or even even
how to handle different cancer and now
here comes the first question is it how
to handle different cancer are there
many different
cancers well it depends on how you
characterize them if you characterize
cancer based on genetic mutations
um you find that every one is almost
different from every other one uh
because the numbers and kinds of
mutations often differ completely from
one cancer cell to another within even
within the same tumor so they often say
cancer is thousands of different
diseases um you know based on a genetic
profile but if you look at cancer based
on a mitochondrial metabolic profile
it's a singular
disease um all cancers that I have found
uh all
share um certain uh characteristics in
common and that is they all ferment um
and they ferment uh glucose and
glutamine mainly because their uh
mitochondrial oxidative
phosphorilation capacity is
defective so you have to have a
compensatory Energy System in place and
that Energy System comes from
fermentation an ancient pathway
so in a layman terms so can we say that
there is a let's say creating energy or
ATP is like a yeah like a product line
yes and and basically the end of the
product line which is the oxos it's
somehow
broken yes that's correct right so so
anything before it which is like the
Pyro rate right that's what we are
talking about yes yes well you have to
realize this there's
um three
areas of energy that can come from the
cell um there's there's glycolysis
pathway which generates a little bit of
ATP there is the mitochondrial oxidative
phosphor foration system which generates
the majority about
90% of the cell's energy comes from the
oxidative phosphorilation which is
related to our ability to breathe we
breathe air oxygen which serves as the
Comm uh the final acceptor of electrons
to make water so we urinate because the
we're burning we're burning fuel this
way and the waste product is is water
and CO2 every time we exhale we exhale
CO2 which are the carbons from the food
that we
ate so so and that's a very highly
efficient system so uh and then we have
a third system of energy which comes
from a pathway in the mitochondria
Matrix
um called the um mitochondrial substrate
level phosphorilation all the
biochemistry textbooks recognize this
but they always say it's only a tiny
amount of energy but in the cancer cell
the cancer cell uses that
pathway as the dominant form of energy
so oxos is defective the glycolysis in
the
cytoplasm makes a lot of precursors for
growth but very little ATP
so where all the ATP comes from if oxos
is defective and the cytoplasmic ATP uh
is very little then how you do how does
this cell grow so rapidly and and and
spread and perform all of the metabolic
functions it comes from the mitochondria
through the second minor pathway that
becomes a major pathway in the cancer
cell and my colleague uh sh Dr chinopos
at semil Weiss University is the world
leader in this field and he has come we
work together to show now show that
cancer is a um a disease driven by
mitochondrial substrate level
phosphorilation so as you mentioned Seas
University it's in budapes right so
probably I should invite him to for the
next podcast oh I well Christos is very
deep into biochemistry uh you he he is
he is very very good he can explain
things to you I don't I hope he can
explain it to the lay person because
when I even sometimes I have to I have
to challenge him to explain it better to
me sometimes but he's very very good now
there is another Hungarian Connections
in the whole thing which is about the as
I understand the oncogenic Paradox right
which was probably um named this way by
sanor G Albert yes that true yes I think
what is the Parx um uh s yorgi was the
um in
1977 described this oncogenic
Paradox um and we we have solved this
oncogenic Paradox um if you the the
Paradox is essentially how is it
possible that
cancer could have so many different
Origins what would be the common
pathophysiological
mechanism that could could give you
cancer knowing that you can get cancer
from several different kinds of Origins
for example certain viral infections
hypatius C papiloma virus we are know
they cause cancer exposure to toxic
chemicals can cause cancer intermittent
hypoxia can cause cancer radiation can
cause cancer we all know these are what
we call all these different kinds of
provocative Agents from the environment
or even certain gene mutations can put
you at risk for cancer so how is it
possible that all these different
provocative agents can cause the disease
through a common pathway so basically
you're saying I'm sorry but you're
saying there are different entry points
yes the end is the same yes okay yes and
the end is damage to the mitochondria
yes so The Chronic damage to the mitoch
Andria causes a gradual transition in
energy from oxidative phosphorilation to
substrate level
phosphorilation and is this transition
that causes the cell to enter its
default state which is
proliferation and um St
gorgi in in
1977 showed that all cells on the
planet uh before oxygen came into the
atmosphere spere were all highly
proliferative and they depended on on
substrate they depended on this
fermentation
mechanism so what happens in cancer is
the damage to the mitochondria simply
causes the cells to fall back on these
ancient Pathways that existed before um
oxygen came into the
planet excuse me and that's the origin
the oncogenic Paradox can be explained
by damage to the respiration for the
cell into a fermentation and
proliferation so when we talk about the
mitochondria and when we study
mitochondria in the in the school
normally we see a cell and there is
there is one poor mitochondria right
yeah but but there are a lot more in the
cell or none is like the the red blood
cell but but we have a lot more so it's
not only one mitochondria is getting
damaged but one by one things
are yeah the um the mitochondria is not
little bean
shapes if you take a cross-section
through the cell the mitochondria is
like
spaghetti all tubulars
inside all tubular in
there um when you cut though you can get
a piece of cross-section through the
spaghetti and that looks like a little
bean so um but usually you'll see them
in all different kinds of configurations
so how the cell is
cut will will basically
determine um H how the um it looks under
the microscope but it's pretty much like
a a bean shaped
thing so when when and if in the cell uh
some amount or or most of the
mitochondria are getting damaged on some
degree then basically what you see is uh
the the normal uh energy production
through the oxos is is basically getting
impossible so so who is the boss here so
is the mitochondria is the boss or the
the nucleos is the the boss I think the
mitochondria is the
boss um and i' and I've written about
this I think the the
mitochondria were largely responsible
for the orig origin of metazoan cells
which is the beginning of multicellular
organisms if you want to learn how to
implement the ketogenic diet and the
Press pulse protocol into your cancer
management just visit
school.com keto for cancer the new
community by our research analyst Johnny
rocker within this new community
platform you can connect with other
patients and learn from their
experiences you can also just search
through the posts other members have
already made you will have access to our
classroom section as well which provides
practical advice and tools for the best
results
these sections cover all parts of the
press pulse protocol that you should
Implement starting with the general
scientific concepts by Dr Thomas cyh we
will show you how to start the ketogenic
diet including which foods to choose and
which to avoid additionally we prepared
a list of doctors specialized in
metabolic therapy as well as details
about glutamine inhibition and
hyperbaric oxygen
protocols so take a look around at
school.com keeto for
cancer so if you go back in the history
of the planet um you know before oxygen
came into the environment all the cells
were fermenting they had no oxygen um it
was only a certain type of cells that
were able to um produce oxygen into the
environment by by by degrading uh iron
and some of these other elements and
then and then there were cells that
could use the oxygen then there was this
symbiotic interaction between the
fermenting cell and the cell that could
use the
oxygen and that allowed cells to become
much more uh differentiated and
sophisticated so so um the MIT
interestingly enough the mitochondria
has its own DNA and the nucleus has its
own DNA now here's the
situation there's still 13
genes that the mitochondria has that are
unique only to the
mitochondria any any kind of a defect in
one of these genes instantly causes the
death of the
cell however many other the nucleus
encodes many other proteins in the
mitochondria um but these are generally
not as essential as the 13 genes that
the mitochondria
has so if you are a business person
and you have the brains of of the
business um you gradually
allow uh some of your functions and to
go off to others so delegating you
actually control the business by having
a very key role but why should you have
to do everything when you can get
another dumbass organel to do most of
your work for you and the nucleus has
become the slave of the MIT Andria so
the mitochondria feedback between the
mitochondria controls much of what the
nucleus does so the on turning on
turning off genes and all these kinds of
things is controlled by the retrograde
signaling system between the
mitochondria and the nucleus so so
basically the the mitochondria has the
blueprint of the business yes and yes
and delegating all the other things to
the dust yes yes and it's all energy
it's all energy
related so it's a sophisticated energy
source so keeps the cell in a
differentiated State doing its normal
function but when that organel the
mitochondria becomes defective in some
way this cell reverts back to the way it
was before oxygen came onto the
planet so that and that's what s Yori
said he said all cells before oxygen
came into the into the atmosphere had
unbridled proliferation
and they would just use fermentation
until the fuel disappeared and then they
would die so there was no
differentiation no sophistication it was
just rap rapid
proliferation so the mitochondria keeps
the cell in a differentiated
non-proliferative state but if they have
to proliferate mitochondria regulates
the growth of the proliferation and when
and when it stops it stops but when that
organel becomes defective this cell
falls back on the ancient pathway un Ral
proliferation no regulation continued
growth as long as the fermentable fuel
is in the body for that cell to grow it
will continue to
grow so so basically it seems like
cancer as it is nothing else but a
survival mechanism right yeah it's it's
it's a um it'll proliferate as long as
it has fermentable fuels in the
environment and um just like it did and
if you take away the fermentable fuels
the tumor cells die so just like if you
took away fermentable fuels in in the
ancient time the cells would immediately
die as asori actually said so he called
that the alpha period of the life on
Earth Alpha period was the period
without oxygen without life just rapid
proliferation only in the beta period
when oxygen when the mitochondria
developed could a cell then begin to uh
differentiate and do spe ific functions
because Energy Efficiency became much
much greater so when you don't have to
waste all of your it's a very uh
inefficient system to use fermentation
because you don't you don't harness all
of the energy in carbon hydrogen bonds
you throw out a lot of lactic acid and
all kinds of things into the micro
environment which are not usable for
energy so by having oxida
phosphorilation you have highly
sophisticated energy that allows the
cell now to do very sophisticated
functions so so basically when we are
using oxos yes we producing less
reactive oxygen species right well you
produce you produce some reactive oxygen
species and small amounts of these
oxygen species are important for
signaling molecules but you don't
produce a lot of them correct so so so
the Energy Efficiency as I said about 89
to 90% energy efficient using oxidative
you don't produce um waste products so
the waste product of oxos is
CO2 and water the waste products of
fermentation are lactic acid succinic
acid all these kinds of things which are
very energy rich molecules which are
dumped outside the cell because the cell
can't get energy from them so but in
normal cells those suconic acid lactic
acid would be fully oxidized to CO2 in
water so this damage to the
respiration causes the cell to fall back
in this dedifferentiated state of
unbridaled to me that that these cells
even when oxygen is in present and we
know how important is oxygen for oxos so
even when oxygen is present this cell is
still picking a different
uh sub substance and and burn it in a a
different way right so that's
fermentation basically so what so do the
cell actually the cancer cell um well
when when in the presence of oxygen will
take up
oxygen and um it looks and it makes
ATP so the Mis
misinterpretation is that the oxygen
consumption of the cancer cell in and
and ATP coming out of the mitochondria
makes it appear that the cancer cell has
normal
oxas but it doesn't because the oxygen
consumption is not linked to oxidative
phosphorilation it's it's a wasted
feudal cycle and where the energy is
coming from is the fermentation of
glutamine the major amino acid in the
environment so this has confused just
about everybody in the field and
chinopos and I are trying very hard to
re-educate the entire oncology field to
recognize that cancer can does not use
the oxygen to make ATP from oxidative
phosphorilation so this is the B biggest
internal misconception that the oncology
field has right now as we see the as we
see the background of it uh I mean there
is one thing happened like 1953 I
believe the DNA right right when they
discover DNA and and as I remember in
1971 that was a war on cancer right yeah
so so are we winning this war or so
where are we now with this war no the
war is lost right now it's it's an
absurdity it's a it's a massive tra It's
actually an absurd
tragedy um because what's happening is
that the concept the concept that cancer
is a genetic disease has led to all of
these incredibly toxic
uh therapies and approaches to manage
the disease the re the most recent is
the
immunotherapies these are pdl1 carti
immunotherapies they are trying to use
our immune system to Target uh cancer
cells that have H uh resistance to our
immune system because of the
mutations that they have you have to
realize that the mutations in cancer
come as a downstream
phenomenon uh of mitochondrial damage so
so the the tremendous number of
mutations that you see in cancer cells
are all secondary Downstream effects
they not not the cause of the disease
and they have very little very little
relevance to the disease but yet the
field focuses on this on this problem or
this phenotype of abnormal mutations
therefore we're using toxic chemicals to
block uh the cell cycle replication
toxic chemicals to to try to Target the
mutations and the cancer cells this is
absurd and this is the reason why we
don't have any major advances and right
now you know we every day in the United
States you know we have over um uh 1,600
people a day die from the cancer which
is still more than the
virus you know so uh the Corona virus
covid-19 viruses now kills about 1,000 a
day or 1,200 a day cancer kills 1600
people a day over 600,000 people a year
I'm not saying that you know the virus
maybe over the shorter period of time
can kill more than the cancer but but
the virus will go away or decrease at
some point the cancer will remain so so
when you say the field is confused yes
so uh does that mean
F yeah the field thinks cancer is a
genetic disease therefore the therapies
that we are using to bage the cancer is
not working because it's not a genetic
disease so if you treat cancer as a
mitochondrial metabolic disease then you
can develop therapies that simply Target
the available fermentation fuels glucose
and glutamine because they provide all
of the energy for the cell well when
when you say this it sounds really
simple
but the other hand when we talk to um
oncologists yes they somehow describe
cancer cell as a very smart highly
intelligent oh uh cell which is just
hiding from everything and and creates
its own uh um protection and prevention
so yes well those those because those
people don't understand the problem if
they understood the problem how come we
have 1600 people a day dying from cancer
if they really oh it's so complicated no
it's a very simple disease it's not
complicated at all every Cancer cell
ferments glucose and glutamine we
publish papers other people are
publishing papers when you pull the
glucose and glutamine the tumor cells
die you transition the body over to
ketones because the tumor cell can't use
the ketones but all the normal cells in
the body can use ketones and fatty acids
the tumor cell cannot use fatty acids or
ketones so you do and then you talk the
glutamine and the disease should be
resolved so who is doing this no one is
doing this why because they think it's a
genetic
disease this is the tragedy this is the
tragedy that we have how common is that
a a cancer cell can use let's say
ketones because sometimes you can't use
ketones sometimes see they claiming some
of the doctors and and people are
claiming like yeah but there is this
mutation which actually drives on
ketones that's nonsense nonsense how how
if you look at the then look under the
microscope and look at the mitochondria
of the tumor that you're looking at I
have just gone through I just made the
big list right here here are the cancers
that have defective mitochondria you
cannot get energy from ketones unless
you have good mitochondria okay you to
get energy Ketone body is is um
metabolized in the mitochondria
okay and the energy comes from oxidative
phosphorilation you must have a good
structure to do this mitochondria
structure and the function so I here are
the cancers that have abnormal
mitochondria listen breast cancer
mammory cancers defective mitochondria
coloral gastric cancer defective
mitochondria all forms of glya brain
cancers defective mitochondria bladder
cancers defective mitochondria hepatic
he hepatic liver cancers defective
mitochondria kidney cancer defective
mitochondria leukemias and lymphomas
defective mitochondria all kinds of lung
cancers defective mitochondria melanoma
defective mitochondria neuroblastoma
defective mitochondria ovarian cancers
defective mitochondria pancreatic cancer
defective mitochondria prostate cancer
defective mitochondria osteosarcoma
defective mitochondria retinol blast St
defective mitochondria salivary gland
cancers defective mitochondria every one
of these cancers which represent the
large majority of almost every Cancer
have the same problem defective
mitochondria every one of these cancers
uses tremendous amounts of glucose in
the glycolytic pathway for metabolites
to grow fast all of these cancers are
using glutamine to get generate energy
so if I take away glucose and glutamine
I should kill all these Cancers and the
answer is yes but just people don't know
about it but again it's is it is it one
of the reason because the the
profession are not giving the
appropriate answer to this problem that
the individuals started to make steps on
their own and let's say they read your
book read an article with you and they
say well if I apparently if I can take
away
carbohydrates yeah and I'm s degree
glutamine which is I think it's a lot
more diff well you need a drug you need
a drug for that correct so then I could
at least slow it
down yeah so so what I see that most
people who are kind of fed up with the
system started to go and find Solutions
like ketogenic diet and and Etc right so
so basically suddenly uh ideas like
fasting yeah and Tim restricted feeding
yeah and low carb yeah for a huge amount
of people it's basically part of the
solution yeah yeah so so now the
solution comes from the Layman yes and
and in my experience this is not
something the doctors really like no so
so here's the situation you're asking
why does the field not recognize what
I'm saying right okay exactly three
three major reasons and they're very
very powerful reasons
okay number one I never heard of this
most oncologists what do you mean I
never heard of this
before what reason number one oh it's
new to me I
I you know um if it were so if it were
so important I would have read about it
in the textbooks okay that's fair right
number two the dogma of the gene Theory
the Dogma all the textbooks say cancer
is a genetic disease every s biology
biochemistry and genetics books they
start off cancer is a genetic disease
this has been going on for more than 20
years now so all of the oncologists and
scientists have been indoctrinated into
the view that cancer is a genetic
disease because all of the books I have
ever read about this talk about cancer
is a genetic disease when you have a
Dogma this is like
religion you treat people in the young
brain and the young brain is
is wired to think in a certain way and
that re that wiring is very very
difficult to change yes religion is
Dogma you cannot convince the the the
Muslim that Judaism is the true religion
or vice versa because this brain has
been dogmatically hardwired to think in
a certain way and when you tell
everybody for years that cancer is a
genetic disease that's what it is okay
the third reason is people's salary you
cannot convince someone of a new New
Concept when their salary depends on
them not accepting this so most of the
oncologists are using radiation chemo
and and ver surgery and all these
different kinds of things and they make
a lot of money doing this and now you
come along and tell somebody you really
don't need a lot of that anymore you can
do very other kinds of things to manage
the oh I can't do
that are you saying that third one is B
basically that money is more important
than saving lives absolutely absolutely
there are so many articles that describe
this this is the this is there's
absolutely no question about this the
life is less important than the than the
the uh Finance of the economy we already
know this these immunotherapies are
hundreds of thousands of dollars to use
these IM they're not they're they kill
half the people that you that that
they're getting they're based a flawed
understanding of what the disease and
they're not working okay why so why
would you per pers persist with these
expensive
therapies that don't work and for the
majority of people cost so much money
because it's based on the gene Theory
and the gene Theory supports the
financial institution of cancer cancer
is big business it's a it's it's a it's
a it's driven by the pharmaceutical
Industries and you're not going to
change people overnight to say hey the
disease which I thought was something is
totally different how can I make money
on ketogenic diets and glutamine
targeting and because the solution you
are actually uh
offering that it's doesn't seem like
very lucrative for the system no it's
not but it could be I think some people
can find out how to make money on
anything but but bottom line is
especially it's an economic situation so
the three come back I never heard of it
I am dog I am a dogmatic view that
cancer is a genetic disease and I could
never do this because my salary depends
on me not doing it sure you
all yeah so the lay person the lay
person is interested in this because
they have the disease and they want to
survive but the oncologists and the the
field no no no no the purpose is not
your sickness drives the economy that we
have if you am I going to do so so um uh
this is threatening to the entire
industry but I don't really care you
know uh the issue is what is the truth
what is our fundamental understanding of
the biology of the problem and when you
understand the biology of the problem
you have to say to yourself what are we
doing we can do we can manage do you
really want to resolve the disease or do
you want to perpetuate the disease so it
can drive an indust and the answer is
for me I want to know that we can
resolve the disease and and we can do it
without toxicity without harming the
rest of the body and we can recover a
lot of lives and keep people alive a lot
longer with a higher quality of life
simply because we we have a better
understanding of the biology of the
disease and we know how to manage it and
prevent it so so um but is it how fast
is that going to be to be incorporated
into the world view so our fun our
approach has been targeting the lay
person not the top Med the guys in the
top medical schools they're the last
people on the planet to accept what
we're
saying all right this so the people we
go to the people themselves and when the
people say I want metabolic therapy
instead of radiation and chemo what are
these guys going to do what are the
oncologists going to do they're going to
say well go somewhere else well
eventually they are going to go
somewhere else and these these folks
aren't going to have anybody to to work
on so um because people want to live the
bottom line is people want to live they
don't want to be poisoned and harmed for
a treatment that they can get they can
survive with an alternative View and
this is what our approach is about about
two years ago probably I've seen a a
podcast with you and and for a a little
uh part we were talking
about um Greg
lassman talking about CrossFit and I was
like oh that's interesting and then I
saw later on you started to work with
with them and you had presentations for
them
so am I right that you start since since
you don't see much reaction from the
field you started to to go to the people
who are willing to listen willing to
change and willing to to implement what
you were suggesting and Crossfit is one
of them probably well uh I didn't reach
out to CrossFit CrossFit reached out to
me sure so uh Greg Glassman a friend of
uh read my book uh and was blown away
and then his father Jeff Glassman is a
former uh NASA scientist uh worked for
the federal government in in rocket
science I believe is a very smart very
smart man and um Greg asked his father
to read my book um and the father had
many many questions about my concept
steps and uh I wrote a very detailed
letter explaining a lot of the details
that I didn't have time to explain in
the book or didn't um and got back with
uh Jeff glasman Greg's father and I
explained to him all of the details and
how we obtained in all of this and then
he became
convinced and and Greg and his father
both realize that what we are saying is
the truth of cancer and it's and it's
logical and it's based on hard
biological uh Concepts structure
determines function this is evolutionary
biology you have to understand Evolution
you have to understand fundamental
biological principles and then the
cancer problem becomes very easily
understood but if you have all of these
other interfering conditions like cancer
is a genetic disease and the mutation
that takes your mind away from the
Simplicity of the disease and it makes
it look incredibly complicated and very
difficult to understand but it's not if
you push that away it's irrelevant the
it's mostly irre mostly irrelevant so
you don't bother your mind with that so
it becomes much less problematic I see
so sometimes um just being on different
forums or even reading some of the
researchers uh material they claiming
things like uh uh protein is causing
cancer or sugar is causing cancer
well
yeah well the sugar issue um it doesn't
cause cancer directly so if I take if we
take a lot of sugar into our bodies we
get type two
diabetes type two diabetes is associated
with systemic
inflammation okay systemic
inflammation can cause damage to
mitochondria in certain cells of certain
tissues so chronic high blood sugar
associated with type two diabetes leads
to elevated C-reactive protein which is
a marker for systemic inflammation and
then who knows people with type two
diabetes have higher incidence of
pancreatic cancer breast cancer colon
cancer they have a lot of other kinds of
cancers that are indirectly linked to
systemic inflammation so you can go back
and you can piece together all of the
linkages between various conditions and
the origin of cancer M what about uh
protein which is you know animal protein
is now on everybody's list as a I don't
know we evolved to eat animal protein I
mean if you think of the Plains Indians
I mean they would kill and eat buffalo
you know uh what were they do you think
they were worri that cancer was the as a
matter of fact primitive Aboriginal
peoples cancer never existed in these
rarely if ever Albert schweiter went to
Africa he he said cancer doesn't exist
in these people uh when the British came
to look at the ints the eskimos uh they
they they didn't have a word in their
dictionary for cancer so so cancer does
and then I I look at the chimpanzee in
fact I wrote it in in a in a recent
paper we just published it on breast
cancer there's there's not yet been a
documented case of breast cancer in a
female
chimpanzee so they have
98% or more protein and genetic
similarity to us and yet they never get
cancer rarely cancer is rare in
chimpanzees all kinds no breast why
33,000 American women die each year from
breast cancer and the chimp is the same
and they have never breast canc why is
that diet and lifestyle the Chimpanzee
is not eating big pizzas donuts and a
lot of high fat foods and they're eating
their natural diet so the chimp the diet
that the chimp gets today whether he's
in the jungle or in the zoo is the same
diet that he evolved to eat we are no
longer eating the diets that we evolve
to eat we have technologically changed
our diets to food high carbohydrate
minimal nutritional value creates
systemic inflammation and puts us at
risk for Cancer all kinds of cancers so
it's very clear what's going on here you
know is is fat on the list I mean you
know for for decades fat was the bad guy
and turns out there are bad fats which
might cause a lot of inflammation but
most likely not the the saturated fats
right yeah well don't forget we when we
go on ketogenic diets we take in plenty
of saturated not plenty low lower
amounts of saturated fats because the
saturated fats cause ketones so you need
to elevate the ketones the ketones come
from the saturated fat the saturated fat
especially palic acid you know um uh you
know their
various caprylic acid you know these
kinds of short chain uh medium chain
triglyceride fats they're they go to the
liver and the liver makes beta hydroxy
berate out of them and you get the
energy from the beta hydroxy berate okay
that can replace glucose in the majority
of tissues very very healthy but you
don't sit down and eat a big tub of fat
like a big b bottle of lard nobody eats
nobody who does this but the way we eat
lard is we take a cake and we take the
lard or the Crisco and we add sugar to
the Crisco and that becomes the icing on
the cake and now we like it it's very
tasty but if you eat the fat without the
sugar you don't like it so um but but
you know and don't forget our primitive
ancesters the Paleo they would smash the
bones to get the the marrow all fat the
marrow is fat sure so but they're not
eating a big tub of this stuff and you
have to use a lot of energy to kill the
elephant to get the marrow
so the Paleo it's all you know we evolv
to don't forget if we were not able to
eat proteins and fats and we're we are a
omnivorous we can eat anything we we can
eat and you know people on the planet
will you hear a lot of strange things
people eat all kinds of weird things so
so we evolve to eat almost everything
the the problem is and that kept us
alive and that's the reason why we're a
species today because we were more
adaptable to climate changes and radical
changes in the environment than other
species okay but we pay a price for that
we pay a price now for that because our
technology has made abundance of all
these delicious foods minimal
nutritional value and it puts us at risk
for all these diseases which the
chimpanzee does not have now you
mentioned another uh input for cancer
and that was
hypoxia yes so so when we talk about
hypoxia that means that okay so now the
oxos is damaged for whatever reason
that's that's well hypoxia can damage
oxos that's what I wanted to ask so does
it work otherwise than
hypoxia yeah but how does hypoxia could
happen when I'm
breathing well you're not yeah you're
not going to get hypoxia when you're
breathing it's intermittent hypoxia that
happen so for example if a woman in a
breast has uded um milk duct okay that
would cause a local hypoxia or
inflammation which causes hypoxia which
damages
respiration um some people who have
diabetes have sleep apnea sure yes yes
this is an interruption of oxygen into
the body correct okay and you put that
on top of a systemic inflammation
combined with hypoxia you put yourself
at risk for getting cancer from in
various tissues because that will damage
oxid reactive that will damage
mitochondria OV vorberg was the first
one of the first people to show you
could you could cause cancer in cells by
intermittent hypoxia so he was able to
induce cancer in cells by interrupting
the oxygen flow because
damir so basically if the the bore
effect is not working properly right for
whatever reason so either occlusion or
any other things then uh the the tissue
cannot uptake oxygen from the the
bloodstream yes right yes and that's
causing that's causing hypoxia in the
tissue in in the in the cell yes and
then either it once or not it has to
switch to a fermentation because there
is just not enough uh oxygen yeah right
exactly and it's this intermittent what
happens is if you have intermittent
hypoxia you have some damage but not
complete damage because as warberg said
if it's too acute you kill the cell dies
and you can never get cancer from a dead
cell so so it has to be an inter it has
to be a sequential intermittent over
protracted periods of time and every
time you you interfere with oxidative
phosphorilation and then bring in oxygen
you create reactive oxygen species R
sure Ro Ross are carcinogenic and
mutogenic so clearly they are linked to
the origin of cancer through damage to
the oxidative phosphorilation everything
comes back to oxidative phosphor damage
to oxid are we talking about here like
pretty much as we always say that those
make up the poison right yeah so so if
that I'm asking the reason because of uh
of performance and Sport perspective
very we're recing on some degree
hypoxia but that not complete hypoxia
it's not anoxia or something like that
but it's just a limitation of oxygen
right it's a limitation of
oxygen chronically um not acutely
because we have a tremendous wound wound
healing capacity um to to to correct all
kinds of uh of issues in our body can be
corrected cancer is also def o
recognized as an unhealed wound when
when when the damage becomes so chronic
the body keeps throwing out U um more
and more inflammatory cyto kindes to try
to facilitate wound healing and all
those growth factors and cyto kindes
actually work opposite of what they
should work and actually contributes to
the growth so what what are those those
are like interin six
and 10 il10 and all these kinds of
things they're all part of they're all
part of the wound healing process but
the our bodies wound heal in a very in a
very ordered way and when cancer comes
the the the very growth factors that are
supposed to facilitate wound healing
will actually contribute to how fast the
tumor grows and the more the tumor grows
the more lactic acid is re released
which then drives in more cells like
macrofit this is where we get metastatic
cancer from ah okay the metastatic
cancer is our immune system trying to
heal the wound fusing with these
incipient uh that's the mcro right yes
uhuh so the Mac the maccrage is
fusing which is a normal cell of our
body that facilitates wound healing is
facilitating if fusing with these other
kinds of cells cancer cells but they
can't cancer cell can't metastasize by
itself so where does this ability to
spread through the body come from it
comes from the fusion hybridization of
our cell that normally has this genetic
capability but now becomes energetically
destabilized so it proliferates like
crazy but it's a cell that normally
enters and exits the bloodstream enters
and exits tissues and they become our
metastatic cancer cells and all of the
metastatic cancer cells that we have
evaluated all have C characteristics of
macrofagos so we've looked at this in
many many different cancers brain cancer
lung cancer colon cancer
they all have characteristics of macro
but of course they have destabilized
energy
metabolism they still require glucose
and glutamine as a matter of fact
glutamine is the main D fuel for cells
of our immune
system that's what I wanted to ask that
that's it's kind of ironic that the very
cell it's causing the the metastasis or
or helping basically living on glutamine
yes which which as I understand so
please correct me if I'm wrong but but
if somebody was under uh uh different
kind of oncological uh treatments they
they getting extra glutamine because of
the sometimes the burning effect of
radiation yeah oh absolutely and and a
lot of these things are are are
nonsensical if you think about it in in
what you're doing and they a lot of the
cancer patients get high dose um sugars
to and eat as much carbohydrate even
getting cakes right oh yeah eat
everything yeah because and all ABD um
how could you do that when you know that
this is what's going to drive the cancer
so so and the other thing that's crazy
is that if you take radiation and your
body can be damaged they give you um
hyperbaric oxygen to correct the damage
of the radiation but you can't use
hyperbaric oxygen to kill help kill the
cancer cells um they won't the insurance
company won't cover that but they'll
cover rad uh hyperbaric oxygen to
facilit to help correct the damage from
the radiation um yes highd do glutamine
is often given to cancer patients from
all the damage from the radiation and
all these other things because it builds
up your immune system but if the cancer
cell is part of your immune system you
run the risk of rescuing some of those
tumor cells which will later come back
at you and kill
you so most of yeah most of the things
we do in the Oncology Clinic make no
sense at all when you understand that
cancer is a bi the biology of the
disease and consequent ly 1,600 people a
day die from this disease because we
don't know what we're doing for the most
part so so your protocol is basically uh
limiting glucose in one way limiting
glutamine of course it's more more
difficult issue as I understand and it
has to be through
medication and also using hyperbaric
oxygen so in this in this whole thing
what is uh hyper bra oxin is doing with
the cell with the cancer cell yeah well
hypobaric oxygen we think uh will act to
kill cancer cells by the same mechanism
that radiation kills cancer cells so
radiation kills cancer cells by
increasing reactive oxygen species not
only in the cell but also in the micro
environment but when we pull away
glucose um and we put people in uh
hyperbaric oxygen don't forget ketones
will protect normal
cells from reactive oxygen damage but
ketones the tumor cells cannot use the
ketones so they become vulnerable to
higher reactive oxygen species inside
the cell especially when glucose is
reduced because glucose provides
glutathione indirectly through the
pentos pathway and glutathione is an
antioxidant system in the cell you don't
want glut you want glutathione high in
the normal cell and low in the cancer
cell sure so what we do is we we give
ketones to raise glutathione and and and
and cell yeah normal cells yes so the
tumor cell now becomes more vulnerable
to oxidative stress oxidative damage
when you put patient in in therapeutic
ketosis where the blood sugar is low
ketones are high and then into hypobaric
oxygen now you have a better chance of
killing the tumor cells while voiding
all kinds of damage to the normal cell
this is the plan so I have a question
with that I'm sorry to but but okay so
there is the endogeneous um uh
antioxidant system we have what you were
mentioning with GL and everything else
so when somebody has a cancer is it a
really a good idea to take certain kind
of
antioxidants which might Elevate the
level of uh also the cancer cells
internal protection system so is it a
good idea yeah no it's I don't know but
I I wouldn't do it just by Logic I'm
thinking yeah no no it makes you're
you're this is what most people ask they
always say that oh I'm taking all these
antioxidants I'm taking all these
vitamins you know we did a study one
time and you know vitamins are very very
uh powerful uh molecules but but they
but they're all in tiny amounts right
you don't need a lot you know people
pound in all these vitamins we found
that the tumor cell needs the vitamins
be more than the normal
cells so because so why you take all
these vitamins so basically they can
build a stronger Shield
right yeah because their metabolism is
so is so disrupted that the vitamins uh
they need a it's is we have some
preliminary data we we never published
it but it seems that they need the
vitamins more than the normal cells need
the vitamins so why why you pumping all
these vitamins and the you just need a
small amount of them you don't take you
only need them for the normal stells of
your body eating a well-balanced diet
you shouldn't need any extra vitamins
all the vitamins that yeah but but see
Professor C this is the problem because
if you ask an expert and you ask what is
a Val balance diet you will get about
10,000 different opinion from 10,000
different experts is that true right
well I don't know what's what's the
what's the the goal of the expert to
kill the tumor cell or or or to do
something else I agree that right so I
mean my goal here is to is to resolve
the disease in in someone's body sure
right so you're going to you're you're
going to use all your biological tricks
that you understand the tumor's weakness
and you're going to try to eliminate
those populations of cells while you're
keeping the rest of the body healthy you
can have all the opinions in the world
and all this and all that but the bottom
line is we know the weakness of the cell
we know how to exploit that weakness to
resolve the disease and this is the plan
that we are on okay you can either you
can either join the do that or you can
take radiation and chemo and see how
that works for you sure so so um you
know it's it's it's going to be a an
entirely different approach now those
are I'm not saying that we have the
answer to all aspects of this of this
problem we know the core aspects but can
we improve and streamline and modify the
approach by tweaking different aspects
of the diet under the right conditions
and the answer is yes probably but I am
not there yet because we we're if I can
resolve the disease without worrying
about these other things then that's the
the approach I'm going to take because
the the bottom line that drives our
research is one word and that word is
resolution if you resolve the disease
you don't have to worry about a lot of
other things so we we every time we try
a new treatment how well does it resolve
and I have to be honest with you it's
much more difficult to resolve cancer in
a mouse than it is in a human the Mouse
has a totally different kind of
metabolism very very hard to save a
mouse's life when you have a natural
Mouse cancer not these artificial things
that they they create in the labs these
Gene knockout mice and all this kind of
stuff you know that that's only to get
another research Grant it's not to help
resolve the disease our goal is to
resolve the damn disease okay so when I
put these kinds of Therapies on humans
I'm so we're all shocked we can't
believe how well they work in humans we
don't see the same therapeutic benefits
in the mouse that we see in the human so
we're saying who this is really exciting
so let's talk about results yeah let's
talk about results let's say somebody's
following the protocol you approaching
for for quite a long we written don't
forget we have not yet written the um uh
the treatment
protocol uh that was that can be used
adapted to all clinics I have a group of
Physicians and scientists that I'm
currently working with that
nutritionists phys Physicians and
scientists and we're all putting
together the treatment protocol as we
speak this treatment protocol will then
be distributed to clinics that will want
to treat their patients with metabolic
therapy so we have to know all the
biomarkers that we need to measure to to
to document therapeutic success we have
to be aware of uh individual dietary
preferences and intolerances so we have
to we're working on all these systems
right now to come up with a protocol
once that we have the protocol my
colleagues in in oncology clinics will
begin to do this and they'll make
modifications as we go forward because
this is not a a a
well-defined uh approach are you
passionate about the groundbreaking and
heroic research of Dr Thomas cyh on
metabolic therapy and cancer so are we
that's why we've created something
special for you in collaboration with
Johnny rocker a German book publisher
and
translator introducing our collection of
meticulously crafted books that distill
the essence of Dr safe Reed's work dive
into the science and discoveries these
summary books are your gateway to
understanding the intricate world of
metabolic ketogenic therapy in a clear
concise and engaging way whether you're
new to the subject or a seasoned enthusi
our books offer insights that can change
your life ready to explore this
transformative knowledge visit our
website at wwwc cancer as a metabolic
disease.com to get your copy you can buy
the ebook there directly and the
paperbook via the provided links here's
the best part a portion of every
purchase goes directly to support Dr
Thomas safe Reed's groundbreaking
research that's why the direct ebook
purchase is the best option to donate as
much as possible you can see all of the
donations Mr rocker has already made at
www keto for
cancer.net that's right when you buy our
books you're not just investing in your
own knowledge you're also contributing
to the future of cancer research help us
make a
difference together we can drive change
and save lives like if you're if you're
going to get radiation treatment you
know you sit you sit down they Mark some
part of your body they they nuke some
part because they know the power the
Radia how long you should do this and
those are protocols how much chemo you
can give a person without killing them
you know the these are protocols that
have been adapted because they they
practiced a lot on people and killed a
lot of people right sure so so we we are
building this metabolic treatment
protocol to eliminate the tumor without
harming the rest of the body but we but
we're still have to work it out because
there's individual details uh that we
work so the results in large trials are
not available we have case reports
exactly that's why because most people
would ask you like okay show me the the
metals show me the
rcts but you have hundreds of case
studies now right well we're getting
more and more some of them are poorly
done and some of them are done better
and people always say well we should do
more studies more studies more studies
if you did it the right way in the first
place you wouldn't need all these other
studies because you'd have the results
very clear the problem is you know in
medicine they want you to do a double
blind Crow cross over but you can't do
that with metabolic therapy it's not
ethical yeah yeah well it's not only not
ethical but you you people know what
they're getting I mean if I'm taking a
ketogenic diet I'm measure my I'm
measuring my I have to be in a certain
gki value to get therapeutic benefit you
know and this other guy what is he
taking High he's eating a big chocolate
cake you know it's it's it's it's you
can see who who's in the right group so
it's not a double blind so but the
bottom line is resolution like we have a
couple of cases that I'm work going to
work up very soon um with a young girl
uh who was diagnosed with uh dipg
diffuse infiltrating pontine Goma and
she her her story just came out on the
web with the keto she's out many many
years now because that's a very deadly
tumor for little children it's in the
brain stemach they don't usually live
beyond two years most of them are dead
within the first year or a few months
she's out like six years seven years now
and Pablo Kelly from England I heard him
yes so he's going to be he's still going
six years out it'll be six yeah with no
radiation and I wrote a big paper on
this and I said the standard of care is
most is killing most of the the brain
cancer
patients how do you think that went over
in the field right what are you telling
these
guys you know you're saying that the
very treatments they're using is putting
the people at risk for for reduced
lifespan I mean they don't want to hear
that you know who would if you're if
you're making a lot of money doing
radiation treatment and somebody says
don't do that anymore what are you gonna
do so you know my goal is resolution we
want to keep people alive without
toxicity so so apparently you are not
the poster child for for U oncology
right the modern oncology it depends
some of my colleagues who are
oncologists are extremely enthusiastic
about what we're doing that's right
because they have seen so many patients
dead over the years my friend Joe maroon
who was the chief of of U Sur IAL uh
brain surgery neurosurgery in the
country he's one of our our contributors
Dr Joe maroon uh he he said I operated
on 400 patients with gleo blastoma and
not one ever survived and he said you
know somebody has to do something
different and I'm saying yes Joe don't
you're we don't a radiator n we don't do
that anymore we have to stop doing that
and that's like the the biggest Revenue
I had somebody at a hospital told me
hospitals will have to close if we don't
do these kinds of procedures because the
revenue generation supports all the
other procedures that don't make any
well this is the truth yes this is the
financial part of the problem yeah so is
it more important to generate revenue or
is it to or is it to resolve the disease
and those are the questions that people
have to ask now if you have the disease
you're interested in saving your life
you're not interested weing this guy's
kids going to be going to a top college
you know it's it's these are the issues
ises that have to be addressed if you
want to move the field forward this has
to be um this has to be a
consideration let's talk about some
prevention yes let say somebody's
somebody's listening now this podcast
and they getting uh all uh disappointed
and stressed because they see no way out
right but there is a way out so so let's
start with the prevention so so somebody
who just just want to have like give me
um a few steps what should I do to lower
the
R yeah you know it's it's a very good
question but we know that you can't get
cancer if your mitochondria remains
healthy so how do you keep your
mitochondria healthy well you do
exercise and you eat the right foods and
and and you try to reduce stress and you
try to do these kinds of things is that
so simple I mean too simple yeah it's
well it's not it's actually conceptually
simple but pra in practice difficult is
there a pill is there a pill we can just
take and not
well that's what a lot of friends were
talking about this the ketogenic diet in
a pill um but yeah well you're right
it's not easy because we're living in a
society uh modern societies are
constantly putting us at risk for
mitochondrial damage age the older you
get the more the more damage you have to
tissue mitochondria and aging is
basically a a gradual reduction in the
ability of of cellular mitochondria to
to maintain a Delta G Prime ATP
hydrolysis which is the basic level of
energy needed for life so it gradually
degrades and you you eventually die from
organ system organ failure because your
body can no longer generate the energy
needed to remain alive so so um but to
prevent uh risk from cancer you have to
reduce those provocative agents that
damage
mitochondria so you you know if you
avoid viral infections if you avoid
intermittent hypoxia if you avoid
exposure to radiation and toxic
carcinogens if you exercise will keep
your mitochondria healthier because
you're taking in more oxygen your body
is more facilitory towards uh cleansing
and this kinds of things um is it
possible to develop a therapy a
preventive therapy that would require a
pill together with a diet we don't know
yet so um we're working on that actually
because we listen I I'm also I don't I
live in this Society too I don't want to
do half the stuff that I tell other
people to do but if I had cancer I would
definitely have to do it that's what I
wanted to ask like like okay so at one
point fasting will come up and probably
it will come up like three to seven
eight days fasting yeah uh which you
know most people would freak out I mean
even doctors would freak out not just oh
I freak out too sure so that's what I
wanted to ask like how about you oh try
it and see what you how you like
it there I used to tell my father when
he had diabetes before he passed away I
said dad you gotta you gotta fast for a
few days get your body health healthy he
said you do it and tell me what it's
like I screw that's a good point yeah I
mean they don't want to do the older
people not what I have to do don't eat
for five days are you kidding me I live
every day to eat something
yeah but but for being serious so so
let's say that somebody is doing uh uh
fasting let's say like once a week on 24
hours yeah and occasionally maybe a two
three days and then once a year maybe a
five days would you see this as a
reasonable uh preventive measure yes yes
it'll it'll it'll reduce it'll reduce
risk let's put it that way it's a it's a
cancer risk reduction therapy does it
work on everybody no will it work on the
majority of people yes okay it's like
anything there's no 100% uh a treatment
that's going to prevent everybody from
getting cancer okay even the chimpanzee
there's been some reports rare at they
are some chimpanzees did get cancer as a
matter of fact some got some chimps got
cancer from from drinking cow's milk uh
because the chimp's body there was UN
unprepared cow's milk that had a virus
in it and the chimps drank this milk and
they got the cancer from the virus from
the milk they drank so I mean they're so
rare you can almost name this studies so
again why the chimpanzee doesn't get
cancer so they have the same genes as us
they're almost identical to us but they
don't get cancer they don't fast right
they don't smoke and they don't drink
liquor and they eat they eat a diet
their their actual diet is
extremely uh preventive preventative to
mitochondrial damage they have a lot of
um antioxidant fuel all these different
kinds of pro proteins and vitamins that
are found in these plant products and
they also eat um uh proteins they eat in
they eat ants and insects and kill
monkeys and eat the monkey meat raw
without cooking it so um so you want to
know what you have to do get the
chimpanzee diet who's going to want to
do that right nobody yeah exactly so so
basically you mentioned one one other
thing which was very interesting you
mentioned controlling stress right yes
it it is very important I guess as
prevention but also as the cancer
management right so for yes both both so
what what is the
reason stress stress increases cor uh
corticosterone cortisol in the blood and
cortisol raises blood sugar and chronic
cortisol elevation leads to elevated
blood sugar which can lead to systemic
inflammation so everything comes back to
the same risk factors
inflammation uh
hypoxia infections it makes if you have
an infection being in high glucose and
high stress can make that infection
worse put you at a different risk so all
of these things
compounded together you can have more
than one of these stress factors
together put you at a higher risk sure
so reducing stress so same with sleeping
right I
guess yeah you know yeah if you get good
sleep you know all of these things will
reduce risk um to some extent you're not
going to 100% you know because we're
living in an environment but I think
everybody can reduce OT warberg said you
could probably reduce 80% of all cancers
by by you know changing diet and
lifestyle and things like this and I I
agree with that that's good enough but
you know it's it's very hard to do this
though I mean you walk by a grocery
store fresh Bakery with a big you know
big piece of bread you put the butter on
the bread I mean this is oh we love this
stuff are you kidding me tell me I can't
do this anymore no I I I'm not saying
you can't do it anymore I'm just saying
you might not be able to do it as often
as you did it before sure but but either
way it's and you've got to take foods
that are going to lower blood sugar and
Elevate ketones so the Paleo diets that
cosbo and Sophia Clemens claim um you
know they're pretty much carnivores in
in the way they um you know they eat
veget vegetabl and meat but they
everything is L yeah everything is low
glycemic so they're reducing blood sugar
as much as possible and this was our
ancient ancestors we had no sugar in the
environment except for ripe fruits right
where we get our glucose so if you eat
organ meat like liver um liver is loaded
with glycogen sure so glycogen is simply
long chains of sugar so we have to break
the glycogen down from the animal that
we eat in order to raise our blood sugar
comes from within so we're not drinking
Coca-Cola uh or or it's loaded with with
and high fructose corn syrup that stuff
is deadly they should put a skull and
crossbone on high fructose corn syrup
and it's in all kinds of foods all these
different foods have high fructose corn
syrup in there so that should have a uh
you know the same thing you put on on
carbon tetrachloride a skull skull and
crossbones it's G to they should do that
with high frose corn syrup as well sure
it's a deadly it's a deadly fuel it's a
deadly poison material you don't put
that in your body you know but everybody
does oh why do I have so much cancer
heart disease dementia all of these
things they're all related to
mitochondrial damage in one way or
another now another question and pretty
much we are at the end of it but but
what really interests me is like so so
what is your drive because I'm I'm
watching you following you for years and
I see this huge passion uh sometimes
even passion with some degree of anger
probably I don't know if it's yeah well
it's probably more frustration than
anything okay okay you know what drives
you well I think the knowing that
knowing that we understand the biology
of the problem and how to um manage this
problem and significantly reduce the
problem and the vast majority of people
look at you like you're coming from
outter space they they rarely read
the actual evidence uh that supports
what I'm saying I spent thousands and
thousands of hours reading the details
of of many of these experiment and
looking I know I in in in in about two
minutes I can tell you whether the
information in this paper is going to be
important or not important so I can sort
through massive numbers of papers just
by eliminating stuff that I know is not
important but the stuff that is
important is there a consistency in the
evidence that comes from what I think
are the important articles and there is
a consistency that's striking goes back
to OT warberg how many papers have I
seen supporting OT warberg Central
Theory hundreds why are these people why
are these papers ignored because cancer
is a genetic disease it's not a so the
Dogma comes in sure so so you know it's
it's and I have to be honest with you
you know there's scientific arguments um
where where there's a good point but
unless you know the details of the
argument you've got to be able to feret
out those those weaknesses in the other
individuals AR so for me the passion
comes from knowing we have an answer to
make this situation
better and it takes a lot of energy and
commitment to forge through to convince
those individuals who do not see this
clearly as how do we possibly get these
people to see this clearly so you have
to realize that there's an and and uh uh
the seahorse uh technology this is a an
instrument that measures oxygen
consumption rate and extracellular
acidification it's used in almost I
would say 85% of all oncology Labs use
this instrument to study energy
metabolism in cancer cells so they're
all showing that oxygen consumption is
linked to oxidative phosphor it's not so
you have an instrument that everybody's
using that's giving you
misinformation so it's very hard for
someone who has a big research Grant and
has published many papers to have
someone tell them that the information
you got is misinformation well they
don't want to hear that either even
though they're in the same field as you
so so you not only have to deal with
oncologists who know very little about
the biology of the disease you have to
deal with your own members of the field
who are also misinformed on many on many
key aspects so you put all this together
and you have a very very difficult task
to convince but the bottom line is if
late people with cancer start using
metabolic therapy and are living longer
with less toxic effects you know you're
on the right path I've seen it work you
know you're right so we're going right
for the heart of the problem and and and
let the let all the dust settle on the
other things they'll come along they
will come eventually
that's your payoff that's your payoff
basically to see that
it absolutely yeah so the the payoff is
now of course we get donations from
private foundations we need the money
it's very hard to get money from the
federal government when you're telling
most of the people that are reviewing
your grants that you might that that you
may not be on the right so you don't
it's hard to get research when the
scientists who question your some parts
of your your pro so you have that
problem but foundations have been
supportive of us Travis christopherson's
you know Foundation single cause single
metabolic therapies Greg Glassman has
been supportive of us the UK British uh
uh Childhood cancer has supported us you
know Edward Miller he a guy who has a
few bucks he throws money at our program
so we keep the program going with a Sho
string budget that uh we will get to the
end but it just takes us a little bit
longer to get there yeah if somebody
invested big in our program we'd have
the answer and we'd have the data much
faster but we will get there it's
there's no question about it and there's
enough people that'll come to realize
what we're saying and they'll say yes
yes yes yes just a matter of time so um
yeah so it gives you something what else
are you going to do right I teach the
students they get all excited about this
they want to go out and do stuff you
know and then you see the results on
patients that are emailing me every day
saying they should have been dead and
they're alive so um you know you know
what you're doing is working so you just
got to get it out make more more people
aware of this and then I think uh maybe
in 10 or 20 years this will be uh the
standard of care you know at some point
yes that sounds pretty good sir I really
I really appreciate your time oh thank
you I I I enjoyed it very much to be
honest and a lot of my uh things that
you know I was having some confusion
about it's it's it's completely answered
so I'm I'm really really happy really
happy and I would if you and if you
really want the more detail
biochemistry uh in the get a hold of Dr
Christo chinopos yes sir
atwi I he give you he'll give you a in a
much greater detail of the of the
concepts that I've been speaking about
thank you
very okay well listen I'll let you go
and very nice St speaking with you and
uh have a nice day you too thank you
very much thank you bye now bye bye